<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">Ready na ba kayo sa mga New Year's resolution nyo? Start well and follow through with it.</span>


<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">Hi, this is Arnold and this is One Point, a conversation about faith, hope and love. If you're new to this channel, click like, subscribe and that notification bell so you won't miss anything.</span>



<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">So, every January of each year, you make your list of things you promise to do or not to do.  Pero, according to  American Psychological Association, on average, 80% of New Year's resolutions fail by the second week of February. Are you promising to start loosing weight and exercise regularly? Or stop smoking? Ok sa umpisa, pero you'd loose the momentum by February or March. You start to get discouraged and starts over eating again. Or starts to smoke your lungs out. {don't look at the camera} "What's the use of new year's resolution if I'm not going to be able to continue with it anyway.  "</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">Don't give up. Kaya natin yan! Some may say there's no use to have have goals that you're not going to reach it anyway. I'd say, it's better to have goals than none at all. So, yes, let's continue setting goals at the start of this year. But at the same time, we can be intentional, we can be consistent in following through with those goals. It is possible. There are ways to do this. So, let me suggest a few things we can do together so we can be consistent  from January to December.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">Let me start with the basic: Have only one goal this year. And I mean, focus on just one new year resolution -- not RESOLUTIONS... You see, maybe some of you have a list -- I will stop smoking. I will start saving. I will exercise regularly. I will loose 40 lbs! 40lbs! You're setting yourself up for failure if you'd set up a list of goals and then overwhelm yourself in the process. Baka naman dahil sa pagka-overwhelm mo, 2 week palang ayaw mo na. How about just have 1 goal this year. Like, maybe your goal will be to exercise regularly. Maybe you'd not be able to stop smoking this year, but you can start the habit of exercising regularly this year and focus on your smoking habit next year? There's power in being focused. If you're able to focus on one, the greater the chance of accomplishing it.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">One great example of this is Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook. He promised himself to learn and do one thing every year. For 2009, his goal was to wear a tie every day. 2010, learn Mandarin. 2011, be a vegetarian. And he did well in all of those goals. I'd put a link in the description below a list of those goals set by Mark Zuckerberg for himself. Very interesting.</span> 

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">So the first one -- set just just one goal for this year, and be good at it.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">Secondly, start small and then progress through the year. Is your goal to save? To save 1 million this year?😄  Come on. Unless you really have the means, that's probably not a good goal. Maybe for the majority of us, a small, achievable goal is to save 10% of your salary every month? That's more like it. Start small and when you see yourself achieving the goal. And when you do, you're going to be able to encourage yourself with the progress that maybe, you can add on a little bit to that goal.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">This year, my goal is to exercise regularly 3 times a week. Especially this very unique season of our lives, health is truly wealth. The best way to fight COVID19 is from within -- be healthy. I'm not foreign to exercising. I use to go to the gym before the pandemic. But I'm inconsistent. This year, my goal is to be consistent -- atleast 3 times a week -- maybe a 5k run 3 times a week, or include a trip to the gym when things are more safe. To me, it's a small goal. It's achievable. Small but it makes a big difference. Maybe if my goal is to grow 6 pack abs by the end of the year, bukod sa imposible mangyari yon, baka January palang give up na talaga. So yes, start a goal, but start small, achievable ones.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">Lastly, if you have someone, a friend, a church member, a buddy you can be accountable with your goals this year, it'll make a huge difference. If you can tell your friend, "hey, this is my goal for this year. can you check me once in a while if I'm still on track on this goal? or, I'm giving you permission to call my attention when you see me getting off track?" Being accountable to someone you trust is a great sign of being really serious with your goals. You're not just doing this for the sake of doing it. You're actually seriously trying to do it. Because, the reality is, we can't really trust yourself.  You need someone you trust to help you achieve your goals.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">One of my favorite verses is in Philippians 4:13, "I can do all things through Christ who gives me strength." The context of this verse is about Paul's encouragement to the Christians in Philippi, whenever they have troubles in life, he wants to tell them that they can overcome those trials, not on their own strengths but through Jesus who gives them strength. He wants them to depend on Christ for strength and not trust their own strength. And while I will not use this verse to tell you that you can achieve whatever you want to achieve because God gives you the strength to achieve it -- no, that's not the context  -- however, I want us to think about  how God can be part of these goals we're setting. Accomplishing these will be hard on our own strength. But if we trust that God is part of this -- and if it's a good goal and honors God, he is should be part of this -- you can trust that He will help you and will give you strength to accomplish it.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">So, i-ready na ang new year's resolution. Maybe you can share in the comment below kung ano ang new year's resolution mo this year? Let's encourage each other.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">This is Arnold and this is One point. See you again next week.</span>