<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">When you sin, when you mess up -- what do you normally do? Do you  run away from God or do you run towards God?</span> 





<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">Hi this is Arnold and this is One Point, a conversation about faith, hope and love. If this is your first time in this channel, can I ask you to click that like button? Mag subscribe ka na rin and hit that notification bell. I normally release videos like this every week.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">We all mess up. Minsan small time mess up lang. Sometimes, big time, as in biiggg time mess up. Wag na natin i-sugarcote... we sin. We don't want to hear that word, but if we're going to be honest with ourselves, yeah, we sin -- unknowingly, but most of the times knowingly.</span> 

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">When we sin against God, what do we normally do? Can I answer the question for you? Our natural tendency is to run away from God. The first thing we do is we hide our sins. Di ba, mas madaling itago ang ating kasalanan? As if God doesn't already know our sin, but here we are, we try to do our best and hide. Another reason why we run away from God is shame of what we've done. .. And then fear. Fear of the consequence of our sin. So instead of coming back to God, we hide.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">The most common thing we do is justify our sin.  "I'm not hurting anyone, so it must be ok." "Maliit lang naman 'to. What's the big deal?" "I'm just going to do this once and then I'll stop" So instead of running to God when we sin, we justify our sin instead.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">Lastly, we convince ourselves that God doesn't care. That he's not going to accept us because of our sin. We're not pure. God wants us to be blameless, doesn't He? So we run away from God, we stopped going to church, we stopped reading the Bible, we stopped meeting with fellow believers. Because  "my sin is too great for God to forgive." Have you heard someone say, "Saka na ko babalik sa church pag na-ayos ko na ang buhay ko." It breaks my heart  whenever I hear this. You know why? Let me tell you why.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">Maybe you've heard of the famous parable of the prodigal son.  Let me share that with you and some, because you're probably missing something in that story.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">Jesus told of a story about a son who asked his father for his inheritance. The father, in his love, gave him what he's asking for. In ancient times, makukuha mo lang ang mana mo when your parents die. Pretty  much like today. Parang sinabi na rin ng anak na "Dad, I wish you're dead". Anyway, the father gave him his inheritance and squandered it in sinful, wild living. Long story short, he eventually lost everything  and end up in the dumps. In the lowest time of his life, he had 2 choices to make -- should I return back to my father and have a chance to at least have a decent meal? Or should he stay away, continue to run away and eat with the pigs?</span> 

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">His decision was the more calculated one. 'I will set out and go back to my father and say to him: Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me like one of your hired servants.' Pretty clever, if you'd ask me. He probably thought, well, my father is kindhearted. If I go back, at the very least, I won't be turned away.</span> 

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">But he has other plans. He actually wanted to pay back his father.  Notice what he said there, he said, "I am no longer worthy to be called your son; make me like one of your hired servants."  Two things, he admitted that he is no longer worthy to be called his son -- which is true. He doesn't deserve anything, he isn't worthy to be called his son. And then he said, "make me like one of your hired servants." In other words, I want to pay you back.  As if he can really pay back the father!</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">That's what we're actually trying to do. When we sin, we want to pay for our sins. As if we really can. We thought if I can be good enough, if I can do enough, if I can be clean enough, then I can go back to God, then he can accept me again as his son.</span> 

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">Bad news. We can't pay God back. In the case of the prodigal son, he can't pay the father back. The father already liquidated his properties. No way he can purchase it back through him being a slave. But here's the good news. While the prodigal son's plan is to pay the father back, the father has another plan. When he saw the son coming, he run towards him and kissed him. And while the son was narrating his memorized script, the father said, "Quick! Bring the best robe and put it on him. Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet. Bring the fattened calf and kill it. Let’s have a feast and celebrate. For this son of mine was dead and is alive again; he was lost and is found. '"</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">The father unconditionally forgave his son's debt and accepted him back in the family. The father's love and forgiveness is not conditioned towards his ability to pay back. He just wanted him back and embrace him again as his son. It turned out that the best decision the son made was to run back to his father after realizing that he sinned against him.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">In the grand scheme of things -- the father's forgiveness is not free because it costs him something. In this story, It costs him the properties he sold. Jesus as he was telling this parable knew that eventually, he'll pay for the sins of the world when he would die on that cross. Today, when we look back to 2000 years ago, we have the privilege of knowing what Jesus has already done, unlike his audience during those times. So today, when we mess up, when we hurt the heart of the father because of our sin,  what Jesus did on the cross when we paid for our sins, is the very reason why we can have confidence that God will accept us  unconditionally with open arms.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">I don't know where you are at right now in your relationship with God. Maybe there's a sin in your life that's keeping you out of intimacy with God. Are you tempted to run away? To just hide your sin? To justify your sin? You're trying to convince yourself that you need to straighten up first before you can run back to him. God's invitation for you today is not to run away but run back. Run back to him. Because he forgives. Jesus did the hard-lifting for you. He died so you can be forgiven. You don't have any reasons why you can't run back to God. Come  as you are and let God do the miraculous. Come with your baggages and let Jesus be the agent of change in your life.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">If you have some thoughts or questions, you can send me an email, or a private message through the social media accounts posted below. I hope this video has been a blessing to you. This is Arnold and this is One Point. See you again next week.</span>