“Now the wife of one of the sons of the prophets cried to Elisha, "Your servant my husband is dead, and you know that your servant feared the Lord, but the creditor has come to take my two children to be his slaves." And Elisha said to her, "What shall I do for you? Tell me; what have you in the house?" And she said, "Your servant has nothing in the house except a jar of oil." Then he said, "Go outside, borrow vessels from all your neighbors, empty vessels and not too few. Then go in and shut the door behind yourself and your sons and pour into all these vessels. And when one is full, set it aside." So she went from him and shut the door behind herself and her sons. And as she poured they brought the vessels to her. When the vessels were full, she said to her son, "Bring me another vessel." And he said to her, "There is not another." Then the oil stopped flowing. She came and told the man of God, and he said, "Go, sell the oil and pay your debts, and you and your sons can live on the rest."”
‭‭2 Kings‬ ‭4:1-7‬ ‭ESV‬‬
<a href="http://bible.com/59/2ki.4.1-7.esv" rel="noopener" class="external-link" target="_blank" style="color:#00eeff;"><u>http://bible.com/59/2ki.4.1-7.esv</u></a>

This story is a classic example of how God provides for our needs. Elisha asked for the jars. Oil is filled until no more jar. 

A lot can be said about the different applications on this. I see this though as a way for God to tell me that he has my back when it comes to provision. When  worried about money that I will provide for my family or how the church will survive with the financial situation, he reminds that I just need to provide the jars -- do what I'm required to do, work, etc. -- and he will supply the blessings.