I’ve used to teach this to our church. Maybe it was passed on to us. Maybe I’ve learned it from somebody else. This approach really is very compelling, very easy to replicate. The approach to sharing the gospel is simple — you don’t need to be theological, no need to know Bible verses, just share your story. You write your story and memorize it. Your story would go something like this — 1) What my life looks like in the past, 2) How I met Jesus 3) how is he changing my life now.

Simple. Replicable. Doable.

Nothing wrong with this approach in general. God uses everything and anything to reach people. But for the sake of gospel clarity — this is based on my current pastoral and theological journey — let me share why now think this isn’t helpful when sharing the gospel to unbelievers. 

1. Our life stories are not always relatable. Everyone has its own journey. Some are deep in sin, some are just cruising along religions. Some just don’t care. So when we start our gospel presentation on how “God has changed my life”, it will come off for some. For instance, my life story is that I’m a super religious person from a denomination called “Seventh-Day Adventist”. When I one time talked to an Adventist and told him how I left Adventism and what God is doing in my life now as a “non-Adventist”, I got skeptic looks. I imagine him thinking, so what? I’m cool with my religion, nothing’s wrong here. In fact, we’re the good ones and you’re the bad ones! So, that’s his journey, so my story would just come off every single time I’d talk about it with an Adventist. So I thought, what if I asked him some questions instead — like how secured is he in his salvation, and then proceeding with talking about how Jesus’ death on the cross actually paid for all of his sins and he doesn’t need to be afraid of the “investigative judgment” or the “latter rain”. 

Some might have a really good compelling story, like how Jesus rescued him from the depths of sin, of addiction, or anything that will make you “praise God!”. And yeah, those are really really important and wonderful stories that need to be told. But what if the person isn’t really in a ‘deep’ sinful state? What if his sin is simply he doesn’t care? Your story doesn’t matter to him. But telling him that there’s such a thing called eternity that he should care about and that the only way to live for eternity is through the man named Jesus, that would be relevant; he’d be interested.

This approach also is bringing in an unintended pressure for unbelievers to see their lives changed otherwise, they can’t be sure if they’re saved or not. That’s why it’s important to bring in gospel clarity first and foremost before and if ever you’ll share you life story to people.


1. We turn the focus of salvation story from “look at what God has done to you” to “look at what God is doing in my life now”. The first one is focused on Jesus, the latter is focused on you. The gospel is not about you. It’s not about your experience. It’s all about Jesus and what he has done. I know it sounds harsh, but that’s the reality. If the approach to sharing the gospel is through your testimony, what you’re saying is that you’re really doing a great job that they should look at your life and see the gospel there. I know that’s not our motive when we share our life to others, but that is really the implication of it. And to be honest, our lives even as Christians are not worth sharing for most of the time. We’re screwed up individuals. God has been at work in our life, yes, but as one of our guys in my LifeGroup says, I feel like my life is so messed up I can’t share the gospel anymore. I told him, you don’t need to focus on your life story when sharing the gospel. Focus on Jesus’ story. That’s what you need to share, not yours. And he gets it. Even if our lives are messed up, we can share the gospel to others because our story is irrelevant, Jesus’ story is.


2. Our life story is just a result of God saving us. It is not the root. For people to be saved, they don’t need to hear our story. They need to hear the gospel — the root, not the fruit. What they need to do to be saved is to believe in Jesus as their savior and accept the offered eternal life. They are not saved by hearing how God has changed your life. The first one is justification. The second, your story, is the result of being sanctified. If we confused these two, there’s danger that we will unknowingly mix God’s grace with works in our presentation of the gospel. 

We should still write our life story and how God has been changing us. It has its place. God is a God of changed lives. But when it comes to presenting the gospel clearly, we should still to basics of the gospel. If we’d learn how to present the gospel, we don’t start with our story. We start with Jesus’ story — that Jesus came 2000 years ago, lived a perfect life, died on the cross to pay for your sins, rose again on the 3rd day and is now offering you eternal life if you believe that he is your savior. I guess the creativity would be on how to present that truth in different ways depending on where the person is in his journey. That should be the main content of our gospel presentation, not our testimony.