<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;"><i>For we are God’s masterpiece. He has created us anew in Christ Jesus, so we can do the good things he planned for us long ago. Ephesians 2:10 NLT</i></span> <span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">————————————————————————————————————————</span>

<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">I would like to take a moment to welcome all of you to LifeChurch Makati  and our At The Movies series.</span>

<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">God has an amazing plan for each one of us. And our life is filled with turns, challenges and obstacles that we have to navigate along the way. As you watch today I want you to consider what your next step might be. What is it that God is calling you to do that only you can do? Todays story is centered around the life of Walter Mitty. Walter is a middle aged employee at Life Magazine who’s job is to develop and deliver the photographs that eventually become the amazing story telling pictures that have made Life magazine successful for years and years. While trying to make a love connection with a new co-worker he starts to realize that his life is not at all what he thought it would be. And he would often find himself escaping reality through his vivid imagination only to be jerked back onto the treadmill of life by the demands of the real world.</span>

<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">Walter would often play out in his mind how he thought things should be, how he might like things to be, but  his journey would show him that there was much more value in the path he was on than he ever realized and that what he was looking for, what he was dreaming about was much closer, much more within reach then he ever realized.</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">——————————————————————————————————-</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">Many in our world today, like Walter, are looking for their purpose. They know that there has to be more to life. But the sad truth is, most people are looking for the answer in all the wrong places. But as a follower of Christ we can be sure that God does have a special purpose for those who love Him. I love what Paul says in Ephesians 2:10, he says:</span>

<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;"><i>For we are God’s masterpiece. He has created us anew in Christ Jesus, so we can do the good things he planned for us long ago.</i></span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;"><i>Ephesians 2:10 NLT</i></span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">God knows the path He has for you. It’s there waiting for you and it leads to the exact place He wants you to be. And sometimes it is life’s greatest obstacles, life’s greatest challenges, it’s greatest difficulty’s that finally point us in the direction of true discovery of who we are.</span> <span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">———————————————————————————————————</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">The enemy tries to tell us that we are worthless, our usefulness has ended, nobody cares about us and nobody ever will. If he can get us to believe that, he has won. But when we belong to the creator He will draw us back and sometimes, even more adversity is exactly what we need to get us there.</span> <span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">————————————————————————————————————</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">When the most important negative of Walter’s entire career is lost, Walter finally realizes that he has a responsibility that only he can fulfill. Nobody else is going to do this for him and he had to finally decide that if this was going to happen he had to be the one willing to take the next step. It was his job and he had to do it for the sake of what he believed in and because nobody else would, could or should.</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">And that is exactly what it is like when we finally realize the unique purpose God has for us. We own it, nothing can keep us from it, we don’t expect anyone to do it for us, we just know that we were made for this and it is going to happen.</span>

<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">no matter how terrifying it might be.</span> <span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">————————————————————————————————————</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">As Walter makes his way to Greenland to find the photographer and solve the mystery of the missing negative, he has a sense of pride knowing that he has taken a huge Next Step that he hopes will lead to the discovery of the negative and his vindication with the new boss. Little does he know that his next challenge is to overcome his fears at a whole new level. He stumbles upon an important clue when he recognizes a thumb he had seen in one of Sean O’Connel’s recent photographs. ————————————————————————————————————————</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">I love this scene, Walter is so surprised by his own fearless actions that he has to touch a face to make sure he isn’t just dreaming again. When we truly trust God and take big leaps like this, that’s when we truly become big thinking bet the farm risk takers who will do anything to please God, when we move through things we never dreamed possible, this is when we truly find ouselves. Things so amazing that we have to pinch ourselves just to be sure it isn’t all a dream. We can know we are finally living when we have discovered what we’re willing to die for.</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;"><i>(Psalm 27:1</i></span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;"><i>The LORD is my light and my salvation— whom shall I fear? The LORD is the stronghold of my life— of whom shall I be afraid?)</i></span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;"><i>Isaiah 41:10 tells us</i></span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;"><i>So do not fear, for I am with you; do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you and help you; I will uphold you with my righteous right hand.</i></span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">Walter continues his search for photographer Sean O’Connel but continues to hit landline after landmine. And after almost getting consumed by an erupting volcano, Walter gets a text from his co- worker letting him know that the new boss is going to fire him if the negative doesn’t turn up</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">soon. So Walter heads back home feeling like his options are exhausted and ends up getting fired when his boss finds him once again empty handed.</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">————————————————————————————————————</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">Just when Walter thought he had run out of moves he was given yet another next step that finally took him to Sean and eventually the discovery of the missing negative. Many times in our lives we can find ourselves in the same situation. Feeling like we have taken all the steps but it still has led to nowhere. But God’s timing and His plan is perfect. I love what Paul says in</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;"><i>Galatians 6:9</i></span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;"><i>Let us not become weary in doing good, for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up</i></span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">Once we have discovered God’s plan, we must not give up. In God’s perfect timing we will see God do things we never thought possible. Do not give up. (might look at 30 second here)</span>

<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">When we persevere and continue to take our next steps, we can be rest assured that eventually we can see our lives from a new perspective and realize the transformation God has made on our lives through the incredible journey of simply taking our next steps.</span>

<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">———————————————————————————————————</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">After Walter delivers the negative to Tedd he moves forward with a new attitude towards his next steps</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">————————————————————————————————————</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">In the end if we acknowledge God’s plan for our life, have the courage to follow the next steps he has placed before us and then persevere, we can finally begin to discover how amazing God’s plan really is for our lives, find that the answer had always been so much closer than we realized and in the end hear the words “well done”.</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;"><i>Philippians 1:6</i></span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;"><i>And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ.</i></span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">Let’s take a moment and pray together</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">God we thank you for giving us a purpose. For creating each of us uniquely and giving us unique plans to accomplish. I pray that you will show us the purpose you have for us and give us the courage to take our next step.</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">As you continue to pray this morning. Without anybody looking around, you may be here today and you know Jesus but you just aren’t sure what purpose he has for you. You have been hearing the enemies lies and he is trying to tell you that you have no value. But today you have seen that God has purpose for every one of us and you want to discover exactly what that is.</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">Or you might know your next step but you haven’t been able to step out in faith and just take it. And today you are saying, it’s time, I’m not waiting anymore. I am ready to see what amazing things God has on my path.</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">Or maybe you have taken some steps in faith but it just seems like the mountain is getting steeper and steeper. And you have just taken yourself out of the game. But today you see that in God’s perfect timing you will get to one day experience the joy and peace that he can provide if you simply do not give up.</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">If that is you today and you would just say, yes that is me. I want to know my next step. I want the courage to take my next step. I want to see God complete his work in my life. We are going to pray for you right now, If that is your prayer today, would you just lift your hands up right now? God, we pray that you would open our eyes to exactly what it is that you would have us do today. We pray that you will show us clearly what our next step is for you. And lord we know that these steps can sometimes be scary but we also know that if you are for us then nothing can stand against us. And lord when we become tired of taking our next steps we pray that you will refresh us and energize us again with your Holy Spirit so that we can continue on and finish the race and see you plan for our lives completed. And we thank you lord for your power to carry out your plan for our lives today.</span>

<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">As you continue praying there are some of you who are realizing that you can’t know God’s plan for your life because you don’t know God’s love. You don’t know what it is to be forgiven and set</span>
<span style="font-size:18pt;color:#5f5f5fff;">free. And today you are realizing that the only way to know your true purpose is to know the one who created you and who loved you so much that he would send his only son Jesus, so that even while you were still sinning he could take your place and die on the cross and then be raised again so that everyone who would call on his name would be saved. Some of you here today are sensing this even now and you know your are outside of a relationship with God and you are ready to call on his name today and just say I need his love, I need his mercy, I need his grace. I am a sinner in need of a savior. When you call on him today you will be forgiven and you will be made new. All of you here today who say yes, I need his love, I just want to call on him today, I surrender my life to Christ, lift your hands high right now. Raise your hands now and say yes Jesus, I call on you today!</span>