<span style="font-size:20pt;"><b>Character</b></span>
The writer of Proverbs provides us with an excellent jumping off point for developing the character qualities essential to good leadership. Leaders cultivate character by acquiring wisdom and understanding. Of course, those possessions don't come without a price. They require the kind of dedicated and patient labor exercised in mining for gold and silver. Leaders must diligently "search" for the wisdom that is buried within God's Word like treasure covered by layers of earth and rock.
That means using the right tools and exercising patience and diligence as we spend time immersed in this life-changing volume. The writer uses words that call his readers to energetic and passionate action. Take a moment to read verses 1-4, and note the quality of effort talked about there.
As we dig, we must ask God to provide us with insight and understanding. Ultimately, only God can open our eyes to see spiritual truth and then enable us to apply that truth to our lives (see Ephesians 1:18). As God fills our minds with wisdom, our character will develop so that we'll possess the ability to consistently make right choices – choices that are just, fair and moral.
As we seek to possess God's wisdom, we'll be able to move beyond simply expressing the vision and values of a leader. We'll possess the kind of character from which lofty visions and values flow. Our character will be truly godly, so that others will delight in following us.
Prov 2:1-11