(salvation prayer ends and we celebrate!!!!!)

1- For those of you making that decision to trust and believe in Jesus today, we are so excited for you! The Bible says when you put your faith in Jesus He makes you a new creation, and we want to celebrate with you this change in your life with you...so if you would please let us know on your comm card about the decision you made today, we will be celebrating and praying for you!

2- I know that the one thing that is going to make the biggest difference in you life from this point on is reading your Bible.  If you don't have a Bible, we want to give you one.  Just grab one from the table on the left of the auditorium before you leave today, or go to our website and click on the free Bible link to download the YouVersion Bible to your mobile device.

3- Now, if you want to get to know more about our church and how to get connected here and make some friends, you need to come to our next Open Door.  You can sign up for Open Door on your comm card, and the details for the event are in your talk notes.

4- I want to tell you all a story about a guy named Steve.  Steve is a bold guy that goes to our church.  Steve invites all of his friends to come to church with him.  Recently Steve invited his friend Moe.  Moe had not been to church in a very long time.  He was battling a drug addiction.  Steve knew that Moe would not feel condemned and judged at our church.  Moe came, and he loved it!  He is now in a rehab facility in OKC and is going to be attending a LifeChurch campus because he loved our church so much!  All this happened because Steve was bold and loved his friend, Moe, enough to invite him to church with him.  You have the opportunity to be a part of life change in your friends lives too.  Just take the 2 invite cards that were in your seat this morning, and use them to invite 2 friends to church with you next week.  Alright!!

5- So after hearing todays message, Im sure there are many of you that are ready to take the 3 month tithe challenge….there is a card in your talk notes with the details of the challenge and a form to sign up.  Just fill out this card and place it and your tithe in the offering bucket when it comes down your row.  This is a commitment from today until the end of the year to trust God instead of trusting the money.  We believe  that God will bless you and provide all of your needs when you honor him.  We are so sure about this, that if you keep your commitment and God doesn't provide for you, then we will give you all of your money back.  A money back guarantee…you can't beat that right??!! So there are several ways to return your tithe, like writing a check, using cash and placing it in a tithe envelope from your seat back, but the easiest and best way is to pay online where you can set it up to pay automatically from your bank account. You can find the link on YouVersion Live or go to our website and click on Support Our Mission.

6- When you give your tithes and offerings, you are not only honoring God with your finances, you are also making a difference in the lives of so many people like Moe.  We want everyone in our community to know God loves them and that they can have a relationship with him.  By partnering with us financially, you are helping us lead people to become fully devoted followers of Christ.  As the offering bucket comes by, if you are in need of food, clothing, or shelter, feel free to take cash out of the offering bucket and allow God to meet your need that way… Just don't get caught with ice cream on your face :-)  Lets pray…..