<span style="font-family:ArialMT;font-size:15pt;color:#444444ff;">Have you ever heard this? “Pastor, I think before we go after any new people, we ought to go back and round up all the old people who’ve left the church.” This is a guaranteed strategy for church decline because those who have left have often decided to be unreceptive to the church’s mission and message. It takes ten times more energy to reclaim somebody who’s gotten upset and cantankerous and mad than to go out and win someone who hasn’t yet trusted in Jesus. God has called you to feed sheep, not corral goats.</span>
<span style="font-family:ArialMT;font-size:15pt;color:#444444ff;">Growing churches focus on reaching receptive people while non-growing churches focus on re-enlisting inactive people.</span>
<span style="font-family:ArialMT;font-size:15pt;color:#444444ff;">Who are the most receptive people in your community? How do you know who’s ready to be reached? People who are experiencing change, for good or for bad, are generally more receptive. When people are going through changes, good or bad, it makes them more open to the Gospel. People</span> <span style="font-family:Arial-BoldItalicMT;font-size:15pt;color:#444444ff;"><b><i>in transition</i></b></span> <span style="font-family:ArialMT;font-size:15pt;color:#444444ff;">and those</span> <span style="font-family:Arial-BoldItalicMT;font-size:15pt;color:#444444ff;"><b><i>under tension</i></b></span> <span style="font-family:ArialMT;font-size:15pt;color:#444444ff;">are the most receptive.</span>
<span style="font-family:ArialMT;font-size:15pt;color:#444444ff;">When people are going through transition, they’re more open. A new job, a new home, a new baby, a new graduation, a new marriage. And second, those under tension – physical tension, emotional tension, financial tension, or relational tension are usually searching for answers, for hope, and for truth.</span>
 
<span style="font-family:ArialMT;font-size:15pt;color:#444444ff;">Rick Warren</span>
<span style="font-family:ArialMT;font-size:15pt;color:#444444ff;">THOUGHT: focus on building a system. If some drop out, as long as there is a good system in place, it's not our fault. We should not run after them. However, if we don't have a good system maybe they dropped out only because we did not care enough for them.</span>