Legalism, what I should do earn God’s love
- reflects on how I treat people
- spiritual police (make up, church saturday mall, mini skirt)
Gospel, what Jesus has done to show his love

Pride in the church, remnant
- eschatology 


Theology is a good study if gospel based
- Trinity, loving community, reflects the love of God 
- Christology, 2 natures, as God, he is powerful, can hear us, as man he is 
- Ecclesiology, universal church God saved, local church

Obedience is not a means for salvation. 
Growing obedience is a result of salvation.



—

3rd generation Seventh-day Adventist

Is Adventism a “cult of Christianity?”

Legit Christian denomination
- Trinitarian
- Salvation by grace through faith, statement of beliefs

Cult of Christianity
- like Jehova’s Witnesses, Iglesia ni Cristo

Christian Church with questionable doctrines that lead to cultic practices.
- Walter Martin, “Kingdom of the Cults”

“Sabadista”
Saturday, pork, don’t smoke.

They have high regard of the Scriptures
Values church/community, life’s top priority
Emphasis of healthy living

Seventh-day Sabbath
(Mosiac) Law obedience
Eschatology, with emphasis on peculiarity
- fear
- key words “obedience”, “theology” addicted to

Legalism
Spiritual police

“Sabadong sabado….!” (frowned face)
- owishi 

I was a proud law-obeying member of the member of the remnant church — Seventh-day Adventist Church.
Gospel? 

“Communities of Grace Ministries”
1998-2000
Forgiveness

“Something’s not right.”
Christ’s Commission Fellowship
Ephesians 2:8,9

'And you were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you previously walked according to the ways of this world… Ephesians 2:1-2 (CSB)

'All of us used to live that way, following the passionate desires and inclinations of our sinful nature. By our very nature we were subject to God’s anger, just like everyone else. ' Ephesians 2:3 (NLT)

'But God is so rich in mercy, and he loved us so much, that even though we were dead because of our sins, he gave us life when he raised Christ from the dead…’ Ephesians 2:4-5 (NLT)

'For you are saved by grace through faith…
Ephesians 2:8-9 (CSB)

'For you are saved by grace through faith, and this is not from yourselves;
Ephesians 2:8-9 (CSB)

'For you are saved by grace through faith, and this is not from yourselves; it is God’s gift …
Ephesians 2:8-9 (CSB)

'For you are saved by grace through faith, and this is not from yourselves; it is God’s gift — not from works… '
Ephesians 2:8-9 (CSB)

'For you are saved by grace through faith, and this is not from yourselves; it is God’s gift — not from works, so that no one can boast. '
Ephesians 2:8-9 (CSB)

“Grace means there is nothing we can do to make God love us more... And grace means there is nothing we can do to make God love us less... Grace means that God already loves us as much as an infinite God can possibly love.”
<span style="font-family:HelveticaNeue-Bold;"><b>―</b></span> **Philip Yancey,** <a href="https://www.goodreads.com/work/quotes/1616396" rel="noopener" class="external-link" target="_blank" style="color:#e4afaff;"><b>What's So Amazing About Grace?</b></a>

“Grace says you have nothing to give, nothing to earn, nothing to pay. You couldn’t if you tried!”
- Charles Swindoll, The Grace Awakening

“By striving to prove how much they deserve God’s love, legalists miss the whole point of the gospel, that it is a gift from God to people who don’t deserve it. The solution to sin is not to impose an ever-stricter code of behavior. It is to know God.”
― **Philip Yancey,** [**What's So Amazing About Grace?**](https://www.goodreads.com/work/quotes/1616396)

Grace Place (Metro Manila)
LifeChurch Makati
LifeCity Church

- older brother, younger brother

We’re not immune to legalism.

Grace is not behavior modification. Grace is all about relationship.

Obedience is not the means to earn God’s love.
Growing obedience is a response to God’s love.

“Ponder this: if the Father is satisfied with his Son’s full payment for sin, and we are in his Son by grace through faith, then He is satisfied with you and me. How long must Christians live before we finally believe that?”
Charles Swindoll, The Grace Awakening