<span style="color:#333333ff;"><b>The Rules of Fight Club</b></span>

<span style="color:#333333ff;">“Welcome to Fight Club. The first rule of Fight Club is: you do not TALK about Fight Club. The second rule of Fight Club is: you do NOT talk about Fight Club!”</span>
<span style="color:#333333ff;">—Tyler Durden,</span> <span style="color:#333333ff;"><i>Fight Club</i></span><span style="color:#333333ff;">, 1999</span>


<span style="color:#333333ff;">I’ve got news for you: you’re</span> <span style="color:#333333ff;"><i>in</i></span> <span style="color:#333333ff;">a fight. Right now. We</span> <span style="color:#333333ff;"><i>all</i></span> <span style="color:#333333ff;">are.</span>
<span style="color:#333333ff;">Have you ever noticed how hard it is sometimes just to follow God? Why isn’t marriage effortless? Why is raising a family so…complicated? Shouldn’t those things just come naturally? Shouldn’t they be easy? But they’re not.</span>
<span style="color:#333333ff;">Let’s say we’re standing on an empty football field, just you and me. We’re on the 20-yard line. I throw you the ball and say, “Run this into the end zone.” In no time at all, you’re spiking the ball and doing the Heisman. Easy, right?</span>
<span style="color:#333333ff;">We were just a couple of guys horsing around, but now let’s mix it up a little. Let’s add 60,000 screaming fans and nine more guys (maybe some friends from your work). And let’s say we’re facing…a defensive lineup of NFL All-Stars. The game’s changed, hasn’t it? This time, if I can even get the ball to you at the 20-yard line, you’ll be lucky to make it through this without any broken bones—let alone actually reaching the end zone! There’s opposition. There’s someone trying to stop you. A bunch of</span><span style="color:#333333ff;"><i>huge</i></span> <span style="color:#333333ff;">someones.</span>
<span style="color:#333333ff;">Make no mistake: You are in a fight. Every day, you’re getting stared down by your enemy. And his mission statement, his entire life’s purpose, can be summed up in three words: Steal. Kill.</span><span style="color:#333333ff;"><b>DESTROY</b></span><span style="color:#333333ff;">.</span> <span style="color:#ff268ff;">(John 10:10)</span>
<span style="color:#ff268ff;">1 Peter 5:8</span> <span style="color:#333333ff;">warns you: “Watch your back, man! You’ve got a vicious enemy: the devil. Don’t underestimate this guy. He’s like a lion, out stalking you. He wants to tear your flesh, to devour you whole.” (Craig’s Paraphrased Version)</span>
<span style="color:#333333ff;">Get that in your head: A rabid lion is</span> <span style="color:#333333ff;"><i>hunting</i></span><span style="color:#333333ff;">you. To</span> <span style="color:#333333ff;"><i>eat</i></span> <span style="color:#333333ff;">you! Oh, you’re in a fight, all right.</span>
<span style="color:#333333ff;">The next 10 days are FIGHT Boot Camp. We’ll learn from Samson’s mistakes in dealing with his</span> <span style="color:#333333ff;"><i>physical</i></span> <span style="color:#333333ff;">enemy, the Philistines, so we can avoid making those same mistakes with our</span><span style="color:#333333ff;"><i>spiritual</i></span> <span style="color:#333333ff;">enemy, the devil.</span>
It’s fourth down. We’re on the 20. And on this next snap, the ball is coming to *you*. What are you going to do? Are you ready for this fight? 

Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might.  Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil.  For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.  Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm. <span style="color:#ff268ff;">(Eph. 6:10-13)</span>