<span style="font-size:20pt;"><b>Values</b></span>
Values are uncompromisable, undebatable truths that drive and direct behavior. They are motivational – they give us reasons why we do things; and they are restrictive – they place boundaries around behavior. Leadership literature is paying increased attention to the importance of consistent values to a leader's effectiveness over the long haul.
King David describes value-driven behavior in Psalm 15. Notice that he says the person who enjoys the presence of God and lives a blameless life is the one who "speaks the truth from their heart" (v.2). Because this person values truth in the heart, their words express truth. Because they value kindness, the do "no wrong to a neighbor" (v. 3). Because they value honesty, they keep "an oath even when it hurts" (v. 4). Because they value justice, they do "not accept a bribe against the innocent" (v. 5).
Leaders who are driven by godly values reap a great benefit from the Lord. David says they "will never be shaken" (v. 5). Regardless of what may happen around them, they can live with full confidence that the right principles have shaped their values and have guided their decisions. That confidence will give them emotional and spiritual stability. It will enable them to be leaders whom God can use for his glory.
As you reflect on this psalm, consider what values drove the psalmist to compose it. As you examine your own life, what values would you see as driving your behavior? What values would you like to have drive your behavior? Make it your goal to more completely integrate godly values into your professional and personal life.
 
NIV leadership devotional