<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">Hi Kerwin. First off, you don't have to be sorry for being transparent. Being honest with yourself first and foremost, to your trusted friends next, and thankfully in this conversation too, is the first step in rediscovering your faith and being overcoming our struggles. I'm just thankful that you've trusted me with these information even if we really are not personally acquainted.</span>

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">As I mentioned before, your struggles aren't unique. Meaning, lots of people, including me at some point, can identify with your struggles. Indifference to the word of God, lust, moral issues -- these are common issues of sinners like you and me. I hope you're encouraged by that fact alone. Kasi this also means that God doesn't favor anyone -- All of us cannot depend on our own ability to perform and please God's demands. And even if we try we sure will all fall short. All of us need God's grace.</span> 

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">So, ang sa tingin ko, before you can settle all other issues you mentioned (yung lust, yung inability mo to be consistent, yung homosexual tendencies mo), you have to really go back muna dun sa basic question -- why are you a Christian in the first place? And, I mean, you know, we sometimes call ourselves "Christian" because of how our parents introduced us to the church, or because we said a prayer in the past, or something like that. But really, why do you call yourself a Christian? Hindi sarcastic question yan ha.🙂  I'm not questioning your faith, don't think of it that way. It's an honest question. You need to go back to that basic question. Look deep inside of you. Evaluate yourself. See what's in there as far as your faith is concerned. Think. Pray. Don't answer it too quickly.</span> 

<span style="font-size:11.142857551574707pt;">And when you're ready, let me know your answer. Let's start with that. Let's make it as a jump off point of our conversation.</span>