Molinism is derived from the theological works of 16th-century Jesuit priest, Luis de Molina. Molina may have known of Luther's writings as well as Calvin's. But, the primary theologian that Molina engaged was Thomas Aquinas. Molina desired to come to a solution to understand how God's sovereignty operated in a world where free creatures exist. While Calvin emphasized God's sovereignty and Arminius emphasized human freedom, Molina sought to find a balanced approach. Thomas Aquinas held to both divine sovereignty and human freedom, but it was not certain how the two could blend. Molina would add a concept that would offer a solution.
The acronym of Molinism: ROSES

R = Radical depravity. Radical depravity takes the place of the Calvinist doctrine of total depravity. Radical depravity holds that humans are depraved to the point that they cannot save themselves. However, this depravity does not remove one's divine image given to them by the Creator. Thus, the human being is unable to save oneself, however this does not mean that he or she could not respond to God's grace when given.

O = Overcoming grace. Overcoming grace replaces irresistible grace. Rather than holding that a person cannot respond to God's grace, Molinists hold that God's grace is able to overcome the depraved human condition leading to a place where the person can respond positively or negatively to God's free offer of grace.

S = Sovereign election. Sovereign election replaces the unconditional election portion of TULIP. Molinists hold that God knows each person so completely that he knows how each person will respond in certain circumstances (e.g., Pharaoh's hardened heart in Exodus). Thus, God elects to save those whom he knows will respond to his grace, but this knowledge does not come from the person, but rather within the mind of God. God knows everything about everyone before anything was created.

E = Eternal assurance. Rather than emphasizing the perseverance of the saints, which can be construed to mean that not everyone who makes a profession of faith will persevere, the Molinist (at least many Evangelical Molinists) holds that a person's salvation is assured because of the working of God in the person's salvation. God's promises are always true.

S = Singular redemption. The last S of Molinism's ROSES replaces limited atonement in TULIP. This doctrine holds that Christ's death was powerful enough to cover the sins of the world, but only applies to those who respond to God's grace by faith. Thus, Christ's atoning work was sufficient to save the world, but efficient to save only those who believe in Christ.