'After John was arrested, Jesus went to Galilee, proclaiming the good news of God: “The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God has come near. Repent and believe the good news!” As he passed alongside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, Simon’s brother, casting a net into the sea — for they were fishermen. “Follow me,” Jesus told them, “and I will make you fish for people.” Immediately they left their nets and followed him. Going on a little farther, he saw James the son of Zebedee and his brother John in a boat putting their nets in order. Immediately he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired men and followed him. '

Mark 1:14-20
https://www.bible.com/bible/1713/MRK.1.14-20


1. repent, believe the gospel and follow
	1. students follow rabbis
	2. jesus asked you to follow him

call is different

gospel, history shaping event, victory
gospel is a call of grace
moral standards, advice of how you live
burdened 
god accepts you not on the basis of your past but on the basis of jesus’ past
kingdom of God 
- true king will come back


SHARE THE GOSPEL HERE. The kingdom that Jesus offers.

call is drastic

peter simon andrew
james and john, left behind their father
- they did fish again
- didn’t never talk to their parents again
- i want priority over your career
- father is important, priorority identity
- pleasing me, serving me, the supreme passion of your life

fanatiscm - overbelieve 
lukewarm 

“why don’t we all be in the middle”
“christians ligten up”

is that what jesus says?

Luke 14:25
don’t hate actively, 
hate comparatively

i’ll obey you if…
- everything right

i’ll fallow you not because
- relevant
- better person
- happy

come to me because i’m your true king



developmental

- process
- v7 come follow me, to become
- will not make you fishers of men in the past
- sea, place of chaos and death, coldness, darkness
- draw people out of of chaos and coldness
- they have no idea where he’s going



doable
He left his father on the cross
Jesus kingship will not crush you, he was crushed for you