From the Heart
Jesus is Enough, part 10
Arnold Gamboa

Have you ever thought something bad about a person without any prompting from him?

Have you ever said something terrible to someone even if you think she does not deserve it?

Scripture reading
Mark 7:14-23 NIV

Ceremonial laws
- temple rituals
- animal sacrifices

Dietary laws
- pork, seafoods

Talmud (Jewish Oral Law)
- hand washing
- dead animals
- separation of meet and dairy

Ceremonially unclean
- touch a dead body
- you need to do a ceremonial washing at the temple

Mark 7:5 (NIV)
'So the Pharisees and teachers of the law asked Jesus, “Why don’t your disciples live according to the tradition of the elders instead of eating their food with defiled hands?” '

Mark 7:14-23 (NIV)
“Don’t you see that nothing that enters a person from the outside can defile them? ”

Mark 7:14-23 (NIV)
“Don’t you see that nothing that enters a person from the outside can defile them? For it doesn’t go into their heart but into their stomach, and then out of the body.” 

Mark 7:14-23 (NIV)
“What comes out of a person is what defiles them. For it is from within, out of a person’s heart, that evil thoughts come—sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, greed, malice, deceit, lewdness, envy, slander, arrogance and folly. All these evils come from inside and defile a person.” '
- first 6, plural, acts of evil
- last 6, singular, state of evil

We naturally feel unclean
- guilt from past mistakes
- shame/self judgment
- struggle with bad habits or addictions

We try to solve this through different means.

Religion
Popular Culture
- instagram (influencer culture)

We try to solve it outside-in.
And it doesn’t work.

What’s the solution?

Mark 7:14-23 (NIV)
“For it doesn’t go into their heart but into their stomach, and then out of the body.” (In saying this, Jesus declared all foods clean.) 
- Jesus fulfilled the old covenant

2 Cor. 5:!7
Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, the new creation has come: The old has gone, the new is here!
- church attendance (number of hours)

Whenever you feel “unclean”, remember: 
You are correct.

Whenever you feel “unclean”, remember: 
You don’t have the capability to make yourself clean.

Whenever you feel “unclean”, remember:
Jesus transforms your  heart.

Psalms 51:10 (NIV)
Create in me a pure heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me.